docs: add local deployment docs for en (#19)
cloudberrydb/cloudberrydb-site: docs/cbdb-op-software-hardware.md

---
title: Software and Hardware Configuration
---

# Software and Hardware Configuration

This document introduces the software and hardware configuration required for Cloudberry Database.

## Hardware requirements

### Physical machine

The following section describes the recommended physical machine configuration for Cloudberry Database in test and production environments.

#### For development or test environments

> | Component    | CPU  | Memory | Disk type | Network                 | Instance count |

Author: ```suggestion
| Component    | CPU  | Memory | Disk type | Network                 | Number of instances |
```

| Master  | 4 cores | 8 GB | SSD      | 10 Gigabit network card (2 preferred) | 1+       |
| Segment | 4 cores | 8 GB | SSD      | 10 Gigabit network card (2 preferred) | 1+       |
| ETCD    | 2 cores | 8 GB | SSD      | 10 Gigabit network card (2 preferred) | 2+       |
| FTS     | 2 cores | 8 GB | SSD      | 10 Gigabit network card (2 preferred) | 1+       |

#### For production environments

| Component    | CPU    | Memory   | Disk type | Network                 | Instance count |
| ------- | ------ | ------ | -------- | -------------------- | -------- |
| Master  | 16+ cores | 32 GB+ | SSD      | 10 Gigabit network card (2 preferred) | 2+       |
| Segment | 8+ cores  | 32 GB+ | SSD      | 10 Gigabit network card (2 preferred) | 2+       |
| ETCD    | 16+ cores | 64 GB+ | SSD      | 10 Gigabit network card (2 preferred) | 3+       |
| FTS     | 4+ cores  | 8 GB   | SSD      | 10 Gigabit network card (2 preferred) | 3+       |

### Storage

- To prevent a high data disk load from affecting the operating system's normal I/O response, you need to mount the operating system and the data disk on separate disks.

> - If the host configuration allows, it is recommended to use 2 independent SAS disks as the system disk (RAID1), and another 10 SAS disks as the data disk (RAID5).

Author: 不好界定怎样的配置是”高“的。

For the system disk: To avoid interference with the operating system when the data disk is heavily loaded, it should be based on an independent disk.

For data disk: It is recommended to use LVM to manage data disks. According to test, creating an independent logical volume for each physical volume can achieve the best disk performance. Examples are as follows:

```bash
pvcreate /dev/vdb
pvcreate /dev/vdc
pvcreate /dev/vdd
vgcreate data /dev/vdb /dev/vdc /dev/vdd
lvcreate --extents 100%pvs -n data0 data /dev/vdb
lvcreate --extents 100%pvs -n data1 data /dev/vdc
lvcreate --extents 100%pvs -n data2 data /dev/vdd 
```

The names of the mount points must be consecutive, and the mount points of the data disks should be `/data0`, `/data1`, ..., `/dataN`. The data disk should use the XFS file system format. Examples are as follows:

```bash
mkdir -p /data0 /data1 /data2
mkfs.xfs /dev/data/data0
mkfs.xfs /dev/data/data1
mkfs.xfs /dev/data/data2
mount /dev/data/data0 /data0/
mount /dev/data/data1 /data1/
mount /dev/data/data2 /data2/ 
```

## Data exchange network

- **Network card configuration**

>     The data exchange network is a network used for transmitting business data, which has high requirements on network performance and throughput. In a production environment, two 10 Gbps NICs are generally required, and they will be used after bonding. The bond 4 parameter recommendations are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The data exchange network is used for transmitting business data, which has high requirements on network performance and throughput. In a production environment, two 10 Gbps NICs are generally required, and they will be used after bonding. The recommended bond 4 parameter are as follows:
```

    ```bash
    BONDING_OPTS='mode=4 miimon=100 xmit_hash_policy=layer3+4'
    ```

- **Connectivity requirements**

>     - Connect the management console and the database host in the data exchange network. If there is a firewall device in the network access between the management console and the database host, ensure that the TCP idle connection can be kept for more than 12 hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Connect the management console and the database host in the data exchange network. If there is a firewall device between the management console and the database host, ensure that the TCP idle connection can be kept for more than 12 hours.
```

    - Connect database hosts and management console hosts in the data exchange network, and do not limit the TCP idle connection time.

>     - Connect the database client and the application programs that access the database with the database master node in the data exchange network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Connect database clients and application programs that access the database with the database master node in the data exchange network.
```

    - Ensure that the TCP idle connection can be kept for more than 12 hours.

- **Default gateway**

    If the host is configured with a management network, the network card (bond0) of the data exchange network should be used as the default gateway device; otherwise, it might cause abnormal traffic monitoring of the host network, deployment failure, and performance problems. The following is an example of viewing the default gateway.

    ```bash
    netstat -rn | grep ^0.0.0.0
    ```

- **Switch**

    - Make sure that the egress bandwidth of the data network switch from layer 1 to layer 2 is no lower than the maximum disk I/O throughput capacity of a single cabinet (calculated with a single RAID card of 500 MBps).

>     - A switch convergence ratio of 4:1 is recommended. When the convergence ratio reaches 6:1, most links will be saturated. Significant packet loss starts to occur when the convergence ratio reaches 8:1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - A switch convergence ratio of 4:1 is recommended. When the convergence ratio reaches 6:1, most links will be saturated. Significant packet loss occurs when the convergence ratio reaches 8:1.
```

## Software requirements

### Supported OS

Cloudberry Database supports the following operating systems:

- Kylin V10 SP1 or SP2
- NeoKylin V7update6
- RHEL/CentOS 7.6+
- openEuler 20.3 LTS SP2

### OS configurations

- **Hostname configuration**

>     The database and management console do not have mandatory requirements for the host naming rules, but you need to meeting the following conditions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The database and management console do not have mandatory requirements for host naming rules, but the following requirements need to be met:
```

    - Must be a valid hostname and must not contain illegal characters.
    - Legal hostname characters include English letters, numbers, and hyphen `-`. Note that the underscore `_` is not a legal character.

>     - The hostname is not case sensitive. It is recommended to use all lowercase letters. Using capital letters for the hostname might cause Kerberos authentication to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The hostname is not case sensitive. It is recommended to use all lowercase letters. Using uppercase letters for the hostname might cause Kerberos authentication failure.
```

    - The hostname must be unique among all hosts.

- **Time synchronization configuration**

>     Configure the time synchronization service for all hosts, and the time synchronization service should be started when the host starts. Ensure that the time of all hosts is synchronized. Configure the system time zone as the customer's time zone. For Chinese customers, set the time zone to UTC/GMT+08:00.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Configure the time synchronization service for all hosts, and the time synchronization service should be started when the host starts. Ensure that the time of all hosts is synchronized. Configure the system time zone as the user's time zone. For Chinese users, set the time zone to UTC/GMT+08:00.
```

- **SELinux and firewall configuration**

>     Disable the firewall and SELinux. Here is an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Disable the firewall and SELinux. For example:
```

    ```bash
    systemctl stop firewalld
    systemctl disable firewalld
    setenforce 0
    sed -i /etc/selinux/config -e 's/SELINUX=.*/SELINUX=disabled/g'
    ```

- SSH configuration

>     The recommended configuration for the SSH server side (`/etc/ssh/sshd_config`) is as follows. After you have made the configuration, run `systemctl restart sshd.service` to make it effective.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The recommended configuration for the SSH server side (`/etc/ssh/sshd_config`) is as follows. After the configuration is complete, run `systemctl restart sshd.service` to make it effective.
```

    | Parameter                   | Value   | Description             |
    | ---------------------- | ---- | ---------------- |
    | Port                   | 22   | Listening port.         |
    | PasswordAuthentication | yes  | Allows password login, which can be changed after cluster initialization.   |

>     | PermitEmptyPass words  | no   | Empty password is not permitted for login. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | PermitEmptyPass words  | no   | Empty password is not allowed for login. |
```

    | UseDNS                 | no   | DNS is not used.     |

### Kernel parameter configuration

> Kernel parameters are important factors that affect the stable operation of the database. The management console automatically changes the kernel parameters when initializing the cluster. You need to make sure that no kernel parameters have been manually set after the operating system is deployed. The following is a script that configures kernel parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kernel parameters are important factors that affect database operation. The management console automatically changes the kernel parameters when initializing a cluster. Make sure that no kernel parameters have been manually set after the operating system is deployed. The following is a script that configures kernel parameters:
```

 -name: Enable ServerAliveInterval for ssh
 lineinfile: 
  path: /etc/ssh/ssh_config
  regexp: '^ServerAliveInterval'
  line: 'ServerAliveInterval 60'
  insertafter: '^Host' 
  state: present 

 -name: Enable ServerAliveCountMax for ssh
 lineinfile: 
  path: /etc/ssh/ssh_config
  regexp: '^ServerAliveCountMax'
  line: 'ServerAliveCountMax 3'
  insertafter: '^Host'
  state: present 

 -name: Disable removing IPC when logout
 lineinfile: 
  path: /etc/systemd/logind.conf
  regexp: '^RemoveIPC'
  line: 'RemoveIPC=no'
  state: present 
  when: ansible_distribution_major_version == '7' or ansible_distribution == 'Kylin Linux Advanced Server' 

 -name: Restart login daemon
 systemd: 
  state: restarted 
  daemon_reload: yes 
  name: systemd-logind
  when: ansible_distribution_major_version == '7' or ansible_distribution == 
'Kylin Linux Advanced Server' ignore_errors: yes 

 -name: Set SElinux to permissive mode
 selinux: 
  policy: targeted 
  state: permissive
 ignore_errors: yes 

 - name: Disable SElinux
 selinux: 
  state: disabled
 ignore_errors: yes 

 -name: Disable firewalld
 systemd: 
  name: firewalld
  state: stopped
  enabled: no 
 ignore_errors: yes 
```

</details>

> ### SSH password-free setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### SSH password-free login
```

> You need to configure the connection of the root user from the deployment machine to all other servers as password-free. Here is an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure SSH password-free login for all nodes. For example:
```
